Five years after Godzilla defeated King Ghidorah,
Kong is monitored by Monarch within a giant
dome on Skull Island.
Kong is visited by Jia, the last Iwi native
and adopted daughter of Kong expert Ilene
Andrews. Jia is deaf and communicates with
Kong via sign language.
Bernie Hayes, an employee of Apex Cybernetics
and host of a Titan conspiracy theory podcast,
extracts data suggesting sinister activities
at a Pensacola facility.
However, Godzilla suddenly attacks the facility;
during the rampage, Bernie stumbles on a massive
device.
Madison Russell, a fan of Bernie's podcast,
enlists her friend Josh to investigate Godzilla's
attacks.
Apex CEO Walter Simmons recruits Nathan Lind,
former Monarch scientist, and Hollow Earth
theorist, to guide a search for a power source
into the Hollow Earth, the homeworld of the
Titans.
Nathan is initially hesitant as his brother
died in an expedition to the Hollow Earth
due to a strong reverse-gravitational effect.
He agrees after Walter reveals that Apex has
developed HEAVs, specialized crafts that are able to
withstand the pressure exerted by the gravity
field.
Nathan meets with Ilene and convinces her
to let Kong guide them through the Hollow
Earth via an outpost in Antarctica.
Nathan, Ilene, and an Apex team led by Walter's
daughter Maia board a modified barge escorted
by the U.S. Navy that carries a sedated and
restrained Kong.
Godzilla attacks the convoy and defeats Kong
but retreats after the ships disable their
power and trick him into thinking they are
destroyed.
To avoid alerting Godzilla, Kong is airlifted
to the Hollow Earth entrance, and Jia convinces
him to enter the tunnel while the team follows
him in the HEAVs.
Madison and Josh find Bernie, who joins their
investigation.
They sneak into the wrecked Apex base, discover
a secret facility underground, and are inadvertently
locked into an underground monorail transport
to Apex headquarters in Hong Kong, where they
unwittingly stumble on a test of Mechagodzilla.
It is telepathically controlled by Ren Serizawa, through
the neural networks from the skull of a severed
Ghidorah head, but is hobbled by its power
supply's limitations.
Walter intends to harness the Hollow Earth's
energy to overcome Mechagodzilla's limitations.
Inside the Hollow Earth, Kong and the team
find an ecosystem similar to Skull Island.
They discover his species' ancestral throne
room, where they find remains of an ancient
war with Godzilla's kind and a glowing axe
made from another Godzilla's dorsal plates.
As they identify the power source, the Apex
team sends its signature back to their Hong
Kong base despite Ilene's protests.
Attracted by Mechagodzilla's activation, Godzilla
arrives in Hong Kong, and sensing Kong, he
directly drills a shaft to the throne room
with his atomic breath.
Maia and the Apex team attempt to escape in
the ensuing mayhem, but their HEAV is crushed
by Kong.
Kong, Ilene, Jia, and Nathan ascend to Hong Kong, where Kong engages Godzilla in a final
battle.
Kong initially gains the upper-hand; however,
Godzilla emerges victorious after incapacitating
Kong.
Madison, Josh, and Bernie are caught by security
and taken to Walter.
Despite Ren's concerns over the power source's
volatility, Walter orders him to activate
Mechagodzilla.
Now possessed by Ghidorah's consciousness,
Mechagodzilla kills Walter, electrocutes Ren,
and then attacks Hong Kong.
Godzilla and Mechagodzilla battle, but Godzilla
is overwhelmed.
Nathan revives Kong by destroying the HEAV,
and Jia convinces him to help Godzilla.
As Mechagodzilla overpowers both Titans, Josh
short-circuits Mechagodzilla's controls with
Bernie's flask of liquor, momentarily interrupting
the mech.
Godzilla charges Kong's axe with his atomic
breath, allowing Kong to destroy Mechagodzilla.
Madison, Bernie, and Josh reunite with Madison's father, Mark
Russell, while Godzilla and Kong acknowledge
each other before the two go their separate
ways.
Sometime later, Monarch has established an
observation post in the Hollow Earth, where
Kong now rules.